Good afternoon.
My name is Jason Beaver and
I work on the iOS Frameworks team.
[Transcript missing]
So this won't be an intro session.
We're not going to cover
the basics of a table view,
how to get content into
it and things like that.
This talk is going to be
broken into two main areas.
The first is what's new.
There's a handful of topics here.
First is automatic dimensions.
This will allow you to tell the
TableView to automatically compute some
dimensions in cases where you need to
provide custom dimensions in other cases.
There's a new automatic animation
style which just tells the table view
to figure out an appropriate animation
that will automatically look good.
and there's a couple of new update
methods to go along with the
existing methods we have to insert,
delete and reload rows and sections.
We've exposed the ability for you to
attach menus to the cells in your table
view as well as multiple selection.
We have a great new mechanism that
allows you to simplify the code you
need to write when you're adding or
providing cells to the table view.
And even a new mechanism that
allows you to eliminate all the
code related to providing content
to the table view if all you need to
do is display some static content.
And then as I mentioned,
we're going to cover
some tips and tricks.
So let's start with what's
new and automatic dimensions.
So as hopefully you know,
the TableView supports the ability to
do custom section headers and footers.
In addition to just specifying a
title for a section header or footer.
And if all of your doing is
displaying section header titles
for your headers and footers,
then the table can figure out the height
of those things so that we preserve the
appropriate spacing between the sections.
But if you are using custom headers
and footers in your sections,
you need to implement
this delegate method,
TableViewHeightForHeaderInSection,
or the corresponding footer method,
so you can tell the TableView up
front how big this thing needs to be.
An unfortunate side effect of
this is that that means that up
until now we're also going to
ask you for the height of titles.
And you had to guess an
appropriate height to preserve
the standard table view metrics.
So new in iOS 5.0 is a new constant,
UI TableViewAutomaticDimension.
For any of the methods where we're
asking the delegate to provide
some dimension to the table view,
the height of a header for example,
you can just return this and
we'll use our own calculations
to figure out what that is.
All right, let's move on to
automatic animation style.
So if you have a group style table view,
we have these nice rounded
rectangles around each of the rows.
And each of the individual
cells draw pieces of those.
So to preserve the illusion of
that single rounded rectangle,
we have to be a little bit careful
about the animation style that
we use when we're inserting or
deleting rows into a section.
So for example here,
we're inserting a row
at the top of a section,
and we need to be careful that we
use the bottom animation style so
that that row will appear to slide
out from beneath the rows that
come after it in the table view.
And similarly, if we're deleting a row
at the top of a section,
we have to use the bottom
animation style so that,
again, it will slide out beneath
the rows that come after it.
Conversely, if we are inserting a row
at the bottom of a section,
we need to make sure we use the top
animation style because we want that row
to appear to come out from beneath the
rows that preceded in the table view.
and similarly when we delete,
we need to use the top
animation style in that case.
So we have to be a little bit careful.
And if we get this wrong,
we can actually make the
table view look pretty bad.
We break that visual illusion
of the rounded rectangle
that surrounds the section.
Here for example,
if we insert at the top of a
table view and inadvertently
use the top animation style,
You'll see that that,
we've told it that that row should appear
prior to its spot in the table view.
Well that actually happens to be behind
the header there and you see part of
it clipped and that looks pretty bad.
Here's what it looks like if we
delete a row at the top and you
specify the top animation style.
and similarly if we're inserting
a row at the bottom of the
TableView and we inadvertently
specify the bottom animation style,
that row will again appear below
where it's going to go because
that's what we've told it to do.
She'll be behind a header
and look pretty bad.
Here's what it looks like
if you inadvertently delete
from the bottom again,
specify the bottom animation style.
So you need to be a little bit
careful and this can get kind of
complicated as you're doing lots
of changes to your table view.
So new in iOS 5.0 is a new
row animation style called
UI TableViewRowAnimationAutomatic.
So this tells the table view that
depending on the style of the
table view and where in the table
view you're making these updates,
we'll pick an appropriate animation
style which will always look good.
And I encourage you to
just use this generally.
Unless you have a really good
reason to cause an animation
to move in a certain direction,
Automatic is probably a better choice
and it'll look more consistent with
other applications on the platform.
All right, let's move on to a couple
of new update methods.
So as we just talked about
and hopefully you know,
we have ability to insert rows into
TableViews as well as sections.
We have ability to delete rows.
And of course we can wrap these in
an update block that allows you to
insert and delete rows simultaneously.
[Transcript missing]
So new in iOS 5.0,
we've had the ability to do this.
This is what it looks like
if we're moving a section
from one location to another.
Here we're going to exchange
the first two sections.
You see they just simply
slide into the new location.
And the method to accomplish
this is move section to section.
So this augments the existing
update methods we have for sections
and that is allows you to insert,
delete and reload individual sections.
But there's a couple of things I want
to point out that are different.
The existing methods
take a set of sections,
but the new method simply takes a
single before and after section.
The second is that the existing
methods take a row animation
parameter that we just talked about
and notice that the new one doesn't.
This is because there really isn't
an animation that makes sense.
The row is automatically just
going to slide from its old
location to the new location.
So any of the animation styles
like fade or moving left or
right don't really make sense.
And similarly,
we have a new method to move rows
from one location to another.
Here we're going to
exchange rows one and two.
But of course,
you can move rows even between sections.
And the method to accomplish this is
move row at index path to index path.
And this augments the existing
methods to modify individual rows
within a table view to insert,
delete and reload.
And similarly,
the existing methods take arrays of
index paths while the new method takes a
single source and destination index path.
and the existing methods take a row
animation property and for the same
reasons the new method doesn't.
So with that, I'd like to bring
Luke Hiesterman up on stage,
and he'll demo some of the stuff
we've talked about up till now.
Luke Beaver, Luke Thank you, Jason.
It's great new stuff that we
have in iOS 5.0 for TableView.
I think some of our applications that
you guys create for us are going to
be able to be expanded in wonderful,
new, delightful ways.
So, I'd like to show you an
example of adding moves to your
TableView now that we can do that.
And to do so,
I've pretty much downloaded an
app from developer.apple.com,
a sample code that we showed
at last year's session and
I modified it ever so slightly.
And I would like to re-show
you that again today,
but introduce this idea of doing moves.
So this application that some of
you may have seen before allows us
to click on sections and open them
up in a way that demonstrates using
the insert and deletion of rows.
So you can see me doing that here.
But now what I'm interested in
doing is sorting these sections.
These Shakespeare plays are sort
of all in random order right now.
But I thought it would be
interesting if I could move them
into alphabetical order dynamically.
And to do that I've added this little
toggle sort button to the navigation bar.
But it doesn't do anything right now
because I haven't written that code yet.
So I'd like to show you how I would
actually write that code and make
the table view do some moves.
So here's my method, ToggleSort.
I've started doing some things.
And the code that is here already
is the code that updates my model.
My model is an array of plays.
And in fact,
the way that this application works
is I decide to keep a couple of
representations of the array of plays.
One is just plays,
and the other one is alphabetical plays,
which is the new state that
I'm going to try to move to.
...or from depending on
which way I'm toggling.
So the update of my model simply
takes the current array and the
existing array so we know where we're
coming from and where we're going to.
And then switches a property on myself
so I know whether I'm alphabetized so
I can return the right things from,
you know, self row and index path and
number of rows and sections.
And those sorts of things.
So now that I've updated my model,
I want to go actually tell the table
view about these moves so we can initiate
the animation that we all want to see.
So we're going to start with something
that hopefully we're familiar with,
a TableView update block.
Let's begin updates,
ended by end updates.
And in the middle,
what we're going to attempt to do
is take the old representation of
our sections and map it to the new
representation of our sections.
And then for each of those mappings,
we'll simply tell the table view to move
from the old mapping to the new mapping.
So I have two arrays,
the array that represents
my current state,
it's a current array,
and a new array which represents
the state that I want to go to.
So I'm going to iterate through each
of these arrays to find the mapping.
So my first iteration is
through the current array.
I'll enumerate these objects
using the block-based method.
And for each one of these plays,
I want to find its matching array in
the new representation of the table.
So I'm going to iterate through
those objects in the new array.
That's fine, don't worry about that.
Nothing to see.
So we iterate through the
instances of the new array,
and what we're looking for is
the instance that matches what
we had in the current array.
So we look for that with a simple
test to see if the new play
is equal to the current play,
and if so,
then I found my mapping for this
particular instance of the current array.
And I just want to tell the
TableView about that mapping now.
I'll do that by using the
moveSectionToSection API that
we've just introduced.
And it's as simple as giving it the
index where that section is currently,
and then the new mapping,
the index in the new array,
the new representation of the
table that we want it to move to.
I'll give the block version
of the break command here,
which is stop enumerating
new array equals yes.
And then we're done.
We found our mapping for that one.
And since we're enumerating
through the current array,
we'll do that for each
instance in the array.
And this is within our update block.
So each of these mappings that
we've enumerated through each
gets sent to the table view as
a part of a single update block.
And we're done.
We can now take a look at this
in action by coming to our play.
And now if we try to toggle sorts,
All of those sections
move into their new place.
We can, even if sections have
rows showing in them,
we can still sort them.
New things happen.
Sorting of sections just works.
We can do this, of course,
with rows as well,
even moving rows in between
sections if we want.
Whatever moves you want to do,
the TableView is ready and
waiting to accommodate them.
And in fact,
you can incorporate insertions
and deletions and reloads along
with your moves all in the
same update box if you wish.
So that's using the
new TableView Move API.
And we've got a few
more new things for you.
And Jason will be happy
to tell you about those.
Thanks Luke.
Ah, water.
All right,
so let's talk about menu support.
I'm sure you've seen in some of our
built-in applications the ability to
attach a menu to an individual cell.
We've exposed this now in iOS 5.0 so you
can do this in your own applications.
And here's basically the way this works.
The user's finger comes
down and touches a cell,
and we highlight it just
like we've always done.
But if the user holds their finger on
the cell for a fraction of a second,
We're going to send a new delegate
method called TableViewShouldShowMenu
for RowItIndexPath.
So if you return yes from this,
then we're going to
send another new method,
TableView can perform action for
row and index path with sender.
We're going to call that multiple times,
once for each of the possible
actions that might be in that menu.
Of course,
this has a Boolean return value as well,
and so you can indicate for each one
of those actions whether you want to
support that at that point in time.
So after we've called
this multiple times,
we collect all the ones that
you've returned yes for,
and then we pop the menu
up attached to the cell.
So at this point the user can take their
finger off the screen and that'll stay.
They come up and then
and touch the menu item.
We're gonna set the third and
final new method to the delegate.
TableView perform action
for row and index path.
And at this point you're expected
to do whatever the action says,
copy, paste, et cetera.
and once you return from this method,
we're going to go ahead and tear
down the menu and deselect the row.
All right,
let's move on to multiple selection.
So this is our built-in mail application,
and we introduced the ability
for this to have multiple
selection a little while ago.
But now we're exposing this so
you can add multiple selection
into your applications.
A long time coming, I know.
So you control this
with two new properties.
They are allows multiple selection and
allows multiple selection during editing.
And this augments the existing
properties to control selection
called allows selection and
allows selection during editing.
So you can use really any
combination you'd like here.
For example, in mail,
they turn on allow selection,
which allows single selection when
they're not in editing mode and allows
multiple selection during editing.
So automatically when
they go into editing mode,
they get the multi-select interface.
There's also an additional
property on the TableView,
index paths for selected row,
which you might guess returns
everything that's selected.
And this augments the existing
method to get a single index
path for a single selected row.
We also added a new property
to TableView's cell,
and that is multiple
selection background view.
This augments the existing property
that allows you to specify the
selected background view on the cell.
Let's cover briefly what the view
hierarchy looks like in a cell.
We've reused this graphic
from a previous year,
so hopefully you remember this.
At the back of the view
hierarchy is the cell itself.
And if you have a background view,
that's going to sit
right in front of that.
And you can obviously draw
anything you want there.
In fact, that's how we draw those rounded
rectangles in group style table views.
If the cell happens to be selected,
then we're going to add the
selected background view on
top of that background view.
So this is typically
just that blue gradient,
or it's, you know,
blue gradient with the sort of
rounded corners in a group style case.
And then on top of that is the
content view and all of your views.
So this is how we make that blue
gradient appear behind everything.
Multiple selection is pretty
much exactly the same thing.
The only difference is that
we use that multiple selection
background view and then stick all
the rest of your content on top.
We do provide default multiple selection
background views for both the editing
case and the not in editing case.
And so in the editing case,
you can achieve the exact
same look you get in mail.
Okay,
let's move on to automatic cell loading.
If you work with TableViews,
I'm sure you're very
familiar with code like this.
This is the TableView cell for row and
index path method and this is the way
you tell the TableView all of the content
that should appear in your TableView.
And there's sort of
several main areas of this.
The first is you need to figure out
what the reuse identifier is for the row
that the TableView is asking you about.
Now in simple TableViews,
this is probably just a constant,
but in more complex TableViews where
different cells in the TableView have
different structure to them,
you know, some may have a switch,
some may have a slider,
some may have an editable text field,
you need to make sure you use different
reuse identifiers for each style of
cell so that you can get an appropriate
one to reuse from the TableView.
So this is some method that you'd
implement that figures that out
based on what's in your model.
And then the next thing you're going
to do is ask the TableView to dequeue
a reusable cell with that identifier.
So if we have one,
we will return that to you there
and then you can just populate it,
which saves time.
You don't have to create the cell.
But there's always the possibility that
that method returns nil because we don't
have one in the reuse queue right now.
And if that happens, you need to make,
you have to create a cell
of that appropriate form.
And in a complex case like this,
it may be actually quite a lot of
code that creates cells for all
the different styles that you're
going to display in your TableView.
What if we could just take all
of that code and make it go away?
So new in iOS 5.0,
we have a method called
registerNibForCellReuseIdentifier.
So there's a couple of constraints I want
to mention on the nib that you register.
The first is that the nib must
contain a single top-level object,
and that must be a TableView cell
or one of your subclasses.
and the second is that the cells reuse
identifier as specified in the nib
either must match the identifier passed
into the registration method or you
can leave it nil in which case we'll
fill that in automatically for you.
So now when you call dequeue
reusable cell with reuse identifier,
you're guaranteed to get a cell back.
Obviously we'll still prefer to return
one from the reuse queue because that
has the lowest cost and therefore the
highest performance in your application.
But if we don't find one,
we'll automatically go load that nib,
extract the cell and return it to you.
Okay,
let's move on to static table views.
So there's a lot of cases when you're
adding table views to your application
where it doesn't need to be dynamic.
It's not based on some model
that the user can change.
You just need to display
a static set of things.
Here, for example,
is our settings application.
When you go into settings,
you always see this basic set of things,
and it's always the same,
with the exception of some
of the components inside.
I mean,
your switches may have different states,
and text fields may
have different values,
but it's always the same
cell with the same structure.
Here's another example from settings
where we're configuring sounds.
And again, it's always the same things.
So we're not going to go
into the specifics of how
you do this this afternoon,
but this was covered in depth
in the session yesterday,
introducing Interface
Builder storyboarding,
as well as a bunch of great new features
so you can actually flow out your entire
application inside Interface Builder.
So I highly encourage you to take
a look at this if you haven't,
and hopefully this can actually
allow you to -- accomplish table
views like this in your application
without writing any code.
All right, there we go.
All right, so let's move on to a few
of the tips and tricks.
So here's that application Luke was
showing you just a minute ago.
And what we'd like to do is add
an ability to this application
so that the user can rate these
individual quotes from these plays.
Now there's a few different
ways you could accomplish this.
Using just the sort of
built-in features in UIKit,
you might imagine the user could select
one of these plays and we could push an
entire new view controller on the stack
that maybe offers some rating choices.
And the user could hit that and go back.
user also could select one of these and
we might pop up an alert sheet at the
bottom giving a set of buttons for the
various choices the user might make.
But it's really nice a lot of times
to be able to move some of that stuff
directly in line and offer stuff more
localized so not as much stuff is
moving around in your application.
So what we'd like to do here
is show how you might do this
directly in line in the table view.
You tap on a row,
there's a set of controls right in line,
you can interact with those and
when you tap they'll just go away.
So I want to bring Luke back
up on stage and he'll show you
how we can accomplish this.
Thank you, Jason.
Hope you guys liked all that new stuff.
So I'm going to show you
exactly what Jason said.
We're going to add a little bit
of what we might call a control
row to our existing application.
So I'm going to do that in the context of
the two methods you see in front of you.
DidSelectRoadIndexPath and
WillSelectRoadIndexPath.
Mostly it's all going to be
in DidSelectRoadIndexPath.
So my goal is I want to have one,
at most one, of these control rows
showing at any given time.
That is,
in the initial state of the table,
it'll just look like this,
where I've got these rows,
and I don't have any
control row anywhere.
But if I click on one,
I want to show that control row.
But then if I go click on another row,
I don't want two control rows.
I only want this to be showing
for one row at any time.
So I will hide the one if
I click on a different row
and show it for the new row.
So that's the general idea that I'm
going to try to accomplish here.
I will start out by first saying, okay,
if I have one of these things
visible when I select a row,
I'm going to go hide that thing.
and part of that is going to be to
unselect the row that I've tapped
on if I've tapped on the same index
path that I've selected before.
I'm going to be working in the context
of a couple of Ivar's properties on
my class that I've scrolled away.
One is called this tapped index path
which represents the row that I tapped
on and then another one is control row
index path which is where I'm going
to put my control row so you know what
things are flying around the screen here.
So the next thing we're going
to do is get a modified,
version of the index path
that the TableView sent me.
The reason I'm doing this
is because conceptually,
when I tap on a row, I still have this,
the same number of rows in my model,
I'm adding this control row so the
TableView thinks I have one more
row than I really actually have.
So instead of changing my actual model,
I've decided to just say, "Well,
I'm going to keep track of
where this control row is,
and when the TableView sends
me index paths,
I'm going to map them to what they
really are in my model." So I do
that with this model index path
for index path method that I wrote,
which just offsets things by one,
if need be.
So, with that,
I go to figure out what I need to delete,
which that's the control row
index path if I have one,
so that will be set to something
if I'm showing the control row.
And whatever that is,
I'm going to scroll that away
so I can delete it later.
What I'm trying to do now is
build what I'm going to use to
do a TableView update block.
So I need something to delete, possibly,
something to insert, possibly,
and I will be doing that
at the end of the method.
So now I want to update my properties
based on what happened here.
So I have my tapped index path
and my control row index path.
And if I've tapped on the
same row that I already had,
sort of the last row
that I had tapped on,
I'm going to nil them both out because
if I tap on the same row twice,
I'm just going to hide the control row.
And so there will be
no tapped index path,
no control row index path.
We're done with that.
But if I'm tapping on some new row that
is not currently showing a control row,
then whatever I've tapped on,
that is now my index path,
my tapped index path.
And the control row index path
is going to be that row plus one.
So you see I have here index path
row plus one and I'm creating that
for my control row index path.
So now I have the thing I need to delete,
which is whatever was the
last thing that was selected,
if anything.
The row that I need to insert,
which is the control row index path,
that's where I'm bringing in the control.
And I can go ahead and do an update
block to make these things happen.
So here's our familiar
TableViewBeginUpdates and updates.
And I'll do an insertion if necessary.
If I have something there,
I'll go ahead and call tableview
delete rows at index path
and send it my index path.
I'm going to go ahead and use the
new tableview animation automatic
style because that's convenient
and a nice default to use.
Then I'll go ahead and do my insertion.
If I have a control row index path,
send that to insert rows index path.
Again, I'll use the new
automatic animation style.
I just have one more thing
that I want to clean up.
And that's I want to make it,
I don't really want the user to tap
to select the control row per se.
We have some controls in
there they can interact with,
but I don't actually
want them selecting it.
So if they try to,
when willSelectRowAtIndexPath comes in,
I'm going to see if they're
actually trying to select,
and don't worry about that,
and I are going to go,
I went to the wrong, okay.
[Transcript missing]
As a nice little pitch,
I will also say that I used register nib
for cell identifier for this control row.
And so that inserts
when I tap on the row.
Thank you.
and the little control row shows for me.
I can go tap on another row,
that one hides, new one shows.
I can maybe rate this one as hey,
good thumbs up.
Falstaff, he's talking about pepper,
I'll rate that as not so good.
And if I tap on the row itself again,
that indicates that I'm done with this.
And it goes and hides away.
Gives you an idea of interesting new way
that you can think about allowing your
user to interact with your application.
Giving them inline controls
to give feedback about the
information in your table view.
So thank you for letting me show
using a control row in the table view.
And I'll let Jason come back and
talk to you about some more tips
you can do with the table view.
Thank you.
All right, thanks, Luke.
So we weren't actually doing
anything really new there.
This is something you actually you can
do in any version that's shipped so far.
[Transcript missing]
What's a floating view?
Well, a floating view is something that
appears to stay fixed on the screen
as the user manipulates the content.
We have a couple of examples
of these in TableView already.
The index bar that appears
over on the right side,
showing A through Z in English,
[Transcript missing]
So I want to talk a little bit about
how you can do this in your own
applications and create a view that
appears to just float in your TableView.
So I want to talk a little bit first
about the machinery of scrolling so
that we all understand what's actually
going on when we scroll a table view.
So here we've got a blue box
there that represents the
table view in our iPhone frame.
And let's just take away the iPhone
frame so we can focus on the table view.
So the table view is some
fairly long view that goes,
you know, far off the screen.
But there's some visible portion
right now and we're going to represent
that by this sort of dotted red line.
So when a table view scrolls,
all we're really doing is moving the
content offset of the table view.
So that's just the point within the
content that should be shown visually.
So what happens if we have some
sort of subview in our table view?
Here, for example,
we put a little box in our table view.
When we scroll that,
that box moves with it.
Well, why does it move?
Well, that box is specified,
its coordinate system is
specified in terms of its parent.
It's some constant offset from the
upper left corner of the parent.
And that isn't moving,
so it's always going to
be that constant offset.
We've just changed sort of where
inside the table view we're looking.
And this is all that
happens when we scroll.
Cells are at fixed locations
within the table view.
And as we move that content offset,
they appear to move up and down.
And then we take care automatically
when those things go outside the
visible region of popping them out,
putting them in the reuse queue,
things like that.
So hopefully by this point it's
kind of clear what we need to do if
we want to create a floating view.
All we need to do is figure
out whenever we scroll,
grab our view and simply push it
back to the same place on the screen.
So we can figure out whenever we scroll
with the scroll view delegate method,
scroll view did scroll,
and whenever that is called,
the scroll view has moved some amount,
and we can go do anything
we'd like at this point.
This is in fact the place where
we go in and pop cells off if
they've gone off screen and add new
cells if they've come on screen.
And you can do anything you'd like there.
In fact, in this case,
all we're doing is basically
figuring out where we'd like that
view to be and just moving it.
So we'll bring Luke up in a minute and
we'll show some code that does that.
Before we do that, I want to talk about
one other tip and trick.
And that's a dynamic background view.
So in iOS 3.2,
we added the ability to specify a
background view on a table view.
The important thing to note is
that this is actually a view.
I mean,
we generally use it for things like
putting an image view back there.
For example, on iPad,
we have a nice gradient
behind our table views.
But because this is just a view,
you can actually use it for
just about anything you'd like.
Here, for example,
you can see this cloud subtly
scrolling by behind our content.
So with that,
I want to bring Luke back on
stage and he's going to run
through how we accomplish these.
Thanks again, Jason.
So there's a lot of things you can do in
response to scrolling in the table view.
We're going to show the common
case of just wanting to keep a
view apparently static in the,
in terms of the table.
So as Jason described it,
a floating view that stays in the
same place as we scroll the table.
But there's lots of different
things that you might want to do in
response to the TableView scrolling.
I talked to a gentleman yesterday
who actually wanted to potentially
move views outside of his table
relative to the TableView scrolling.
And it's all pretty much the same idea.
We're introducing here implementing
the ScrollViewDidScroll method.
And that's going to be your key if
you're using a TableView controller to
get in when the TableView is scrolling.
And then if you want to make
adjustments to things to get
different visual effects,
that's where you do it.
So I'm going to show you
an app that you've...
seen in slides,
but it's great to see just why
this needs a little improvement.
So I put a little button over here,
this is some more Shakespeare quotes,
but I put a little button in the
upper right that I intend to use to
allow my user to download some new
quotes in case the bard writes them.
And the problem is I can scroll this
table and that button goes away.
So anytime I want to use that I have to
scroll to the top and click it up there.
What I really want is to have
this button stay in place,
be a static floating view on top of the
table and always be in that upper right.
So we're going to do that by
implementing scroll view did scroll.
Now the key is to know where that
view should stay relative to the
apparent view of the table view.
And we're going to do that by creating
a property that we can scroll away that
is the initial origin of that view.
So I'm going to declare a property here,
I'll call it cloud view origin.
And synthesize it
All right,
I've got my Cloud View Origin property.
And I'm just going to go
implement scrollView.scroll.
So in ScrollViewDidScroll,
what I'm observing is the
changing bounds of the table view
because as Jason illustrated,
that's what happens when we scroll.
The table view bounds
change to a new value.
So first thing I'm interested in is,
okay, what are the new bounds
of the table view?
All I'm gonna do is adjust the
frame of my little cloud view
in response to what the actual
bounds of the table view are now.
So I'm just gonna take the
existing frame of the cloud view,
grab it there, I'm gonna set it back but
make a little adjustment here,
particularly to its origin.y value.
So I do self.cloudview.frame
equals erect.
And that erect is the
same as what it is now,
the same size, width, and height,
and origin.x.
But for the origin.y,
I'm taking the value that I scrolled
away in my cloud view origin
property and adding that to the
table view's current bounds.origin.y.
So now as we scroll and
the table view's bounds,
bounds origin changes,
then we will use that value to update
the frame.origin.y of our cloud view.
So the only thing I'm missing
now is I haven't actually
initialized my CloudView origin.
I want to do that when I create the view.
So I'll just come down here
and here in ViewDidLoad,
this is where I create my
CloudView and add it to the table.
While I'm doing that,
I will initialize my self.cloudview
origin to the CloudView origin.
And that should be everything I need.
ScrollView did scroll.
We'll now be able to do its thing.
Now hopefully when I scroll this,
the view stays in place.
Yay!
This even works when we bounce right here
because in this case the TableView origin
bounds is going negative and my
adjustment to the offset still works.
So in all cases this will
work for vertical scrolling.
So yay, I'm very happy about that.
The other trick I want to introduce
here is thinking of the background view,
as Jason said,
as more than just a flat view.
It is the background view property
on UITableView is a generic UI view.
So you can do anything that
you can do with a view with it,
which is all kinds of things.
You don't just need to provide some
static idea of one single flat view
with no subviews that don't change.
As the background view.
Obviously you want something tasteful,
but there are things you can think
about for making your application
stand out by having a background
view that maybe utilizes subviews
and is dynamic in some way.
So...
What I've set up here is a
background view that actually
isn't just a single view.
My background view has a
subview that is an image view.
And that image view is actually twice
the width of what you see on screen here.
So half of it is living over here.
And I'm going to use that to perform
an animation on it and make it appear
to move horizontally off screen.
So I can do that in...
Gears, good place for that.
And what I want to do is just initiate
an animation here as soon as the
view appears that changes the frame.
Let me re-show you.
and I will be doing a little bit
of a demo of what we're looking at.
It changes the frame to move
it over towards the left.
We'll move it off screen to
the left since half of my image
view is over here to the right,
not really on screen right now.
As we move the whole view to the left,
the stuff that's on the right off
the screen now will come on screen
and we'll get this animating effect.
and in fact I made the image that
it shows tessellated with itself
so I can just do this movement
forever and we'll get a nice
infinite scrolling appearance to it.
So the actual code for
this is quite simple.
It's just a UIView animation.
Many of you have probably used
UIView animations before and
that thing still hates me.
So I'm going to initiate UIView,
animate with duration and
I need a few options here.
So I'll give it a duration of say 60,
delay of 0 because I don't need to wait.
A couple of options I'm going to use
are UIView animation option repeat.
That's there so that my animation,
my dynamic idea that my table view
has going just goes on forever.
Don't want it to ever stop.
I'm going to use a linear curve
option because by default,
UIView animations use a ease in
ease out curve but I want just
sort of a constant velocity to
my animation going on forever.
So I'm going to use the linear option.
Now all I need to do is
within the animation block,
update the frame of my image view
so that it appears to move across
the screen as part of the animation.
So I get the current idea of the frame.
I'm going to adjust its origin so
that it moves off-screen to the left.
So I take the imageViews frame.origin.x
and I'm going to take half of its width
and move it that much to the left,
negative.
And now that I have that,
I'll just assign it
back to the imageView.
Take my background image view, its frame,
assign it to what I just calculated,
and that sets up my animation.
And that's all the code I need.
You've seen this once
before in slide form,
but actually running in code,
so much better.
And there it is.
My background view is so much
more than a background view now.
It's me floating through the sky
enjoying my Shakespeare quotes.
So I really enjoyed showing you
a few of these tricks today.
I hope it gives you some food for thought
as to things you can do to enhance your
TableView application and continue to
make the best apps in the mobile world.
So thank you for letting me show that
and thank you for writing the apps.
Hi, thanks again, Luke.
So that's really cool,
but we really don't want you
guys to all go out and make
cloud backgrounds in your apps.
The point of all these tips and
tricks was really to really let you
see sort of under the covers a little
bit and understand how things work
inside the table view so that when
you come up with your own ideas for
something that will set your app apart,
you understand the machinery
of how everything works and
you know where to hook in.
So we covered a bunch of different stuff.
I want to just briefly recap.
A bunch of new features in iOS 5.0 from
automatic dimensions and animation style,
a couple of new update methods
to move sections and rows,
menu support, multiple selection,
new automatic cell loading
feature and static table views,
and then of course the tips and
tricks that we just covered.
For more information, you can contact the
Application Frameworks Evangelist,
that's Bill Dudney,
and there's his email address.
There's some great online
documentation which discusses this,
as well as the developer forums where
you can all help each other out.
There's a couple of related sessions.
Unfortunately,
these all happened yesterday.
But simplifying touch, event handling,
and gesture recognizers,
and some advanced gesture recognition.
With that, thanks for coming.